.Dd $Mdocdate: May 20 2018 $
.Dt REGGAE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm reggae
.Nd \fBREG\fRister \fBG\fRlobaly \fBA\fRccess \fBEv\fRerywhere is a package
which helps in common DevOps tasks
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm reggae <command>
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
\fBReggae\fR is an open source package which relays on base \fBFreeBSD\fR
and/or \fBCBSD\fR to provide lower level management for jails and virtual
machines.
.Pp
If you have ever used Vagrant or Docker Compose, Reggae is best described as an
alternative to those. It enables you easy development inside jail while code
editing is done on the host. It makes transition from development to production
easier by using provisioners. It makes host clean of all requirements of
development and puts them inside jail which is easily stopped, started,
provisioned, and destroyed.
.Pp
To initialize Reggae, first edit /usr/local/etc/reggae.conf and add:
.Pp
.Dl PROJECTS_DIR=/home/me/repos
.Pp
It will set directory to be shared with virtual machines, like directory
containing your projects. If you don't need such a directory, you can set it to
/var/empty.
.Pp
.Dl PROJECTS_DIR=/var/empty
.Pp
If you want to run Reggae with base jails, no need to do any other edits, but
if you'd like to use \fBCBSD\fR as the backend, you need to add
.Pp
.Dl BACKEND=cbsd
.Pp
run the following as root:
.Pp
.Dl reggae host-init
.Dl # service pflog restart
.Dl # service pf restart
.Dl reggae backend-init
.Dl reggae network-init
.Pp
PF is initialized only if /etc/pf.conf doesn't exist already. In those cases PF
services should be restarted.
.Pp
Through config file in /usr/local/etc/reggae.conf you can change values for
anything Reggae is using. Ater \fBreggae network-init\fR, you'll get jail
containing DHCP and DNS. They are used to lease IPs to jails and virtual
machines and to register all resources in DNS so that you can use FQDN instead
of IP addresses. This jail IP is used in /etc/resolvconf.conf if host has
dynamic IP on egress, so that changes of network parameters are passed to the
appropriate jail. Also, host will use DNS jail IP in /etc/resolv.conf. In
short, it enables you to not remember jail IPs when you have to use them,
but use <jail name>.<domain> to reference them.
.Sh PROJECT
.Pp
A project consists of:
.Bl -bullet
.It
\fBMakefile\fR - configured for use with project
.El
.Pp
One project can contain many services, and that's going to be shown in the
generated Makefile. The SERVICES variable in it will be commented but populated
with example services. All services when downloaded will be in
services/<service> directory. You can use preexisting services if you define
\fBUSE = <service>\fR. For example, you can write the following:
.Pp
.Dl REGGAE_PATH = /usr/local/share/reggae
.Dl USE = letsencrypt mysql wordpress nginx
.Dl .include <${REGGAE_PATH}/mk/project.mk>
.Pp
This project will set Wordpress in a jail.
.Pp
You can run \fBmake <target>\fR on the project:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
destroy
.It
devel
.It
fetch
.It
init
.It
login service=<service>
.It
provision
.It
setup
.It
up
.El
.Pp
Special note for the devel target: your repo must have bin/devel.sh which will
be run on the host. All project targets can be suffixed with service=<service>
but in the above list only those which require a service are explicitely
mentioned. If the service is passed as an argument, the target will be
executed only on that service/jail.
.Sh ANSIBLE
.Pp
A service with ansible provisioner consists of:
.Bl -bullet
.It
\fBMakefile\fR - configured for use with Ansible
.It
\fBplaybook\fR - containing group_vars, inventory and roles directories as placeholders for files generated on the fly, but can be used to configure your playbook
.It
\fBrequirements.yml\fR - list of requirements, with only one initially. All requirements from this file are downloaded from Ansible Galaxy
templates/site.yml.tpl - this file should be edited to add/remove roles, playbooks, etc.
.El
.Pp
When ran with this configuration, reggae will first check if ansible executable
is available on  the host, and if it isn't, it will run \fBpkg install ansible\fR.
If you use Python's virtual environments, for example, you can avoid having
ansible available to everyone on the system.
.Sh CHEF
.Pp
A service with chef provisioner consists of:
.Bl -bullet
.It
\fBMakefile\fR - configured for use with chef
.It
\fBplaybook\fR - containing cookbooks/core/recipes/default.rb dummy script
.El
.Pp
When ran with this configuration, reggae will first check if chef executable
is available, and if it isn't, it will run \fBpkg install -y chef\fR inside
jail. Then it will mount playbook directory on /root/chef inside jail. To do
actual provisioning, Reggae uses \fBchef-client --local-mode\fR.
.Sh PUPPET
.Pp
A service with puppet provisioner consists of:
.Bl -bullet
.It
\fBMakefile\fR - configured for use with puppet
.It
\fBplaybook\fR - containing cookbooks/core/recipes/default.rb dummy script
.El
.Pp
When ran with this configuration, reggae will first check if puppet executable
is available inside jail, and if it isn't, it will install it from packages.
Then it will mount playbook directory on /usr/local/etc/puppet/manifests inside
jail. To do actual provisioning, Reggae uses \fBpuppet apply\fR.
.Sh SALT STACK
.Pp
A service with salt provisioner consists of:
.Bl -bullet
.It
\fBMakefile\fR - configured for use with salt
.It
\fBplaybook\fR - containing top.sls and core.sls playbooks
.El
.Pp
When ran with this configuration, reggae will first check if salt executable is
available, and if it isn't, it will run \fBpkg install -y py36-salt\fR inside
jail. Then it will mount playbook directory on /usr/local/etc/salt/states inside
jail. To do actual provisioning, Reggae uses \fBsalt-call --local state.apply\fR.
.Sh SHELL
.Pp
A service with shell provisioner consists of:
.Bl -bullet
.It
\fBMakefile\fR - configured for use with shell
.It
\fBplaybook\fR - containing dummy provision.sh to start with
.El
.Pp
When ran with this configuration, reggae will first mount playbook directory on
/root/shell inside jail. To do actual provisioning, Reggae will run
\fB/root/shell/provision.sh\fR.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Pp
Quickest way to get basic project is:
.Pp
.Dl mkdir myproject
.Dl cd myproject
.Dl reggae init-project
.Pp
Quickest way to get basic service provisioned with Ansible is:
.Pp
.Dl mkdir myservice
.Dl cd myservice
.Dl reggae init shell
.Dl make
.Pp
You can have multiple provisioners, and the order they are declared on the
command line is the order they will be executed in.
.Pp
.Dl mkdir myservice
.Dl cd myservice
.Dl reggae init shell ansible
.Dl make
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr jail 8
.Xr bhyve 8
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs to https://github.com/cbsd/reggae/issues.
.Sh AUTHORS
Goran Mekić <meka@tilda.center>
